---
author: Martin Weise
---

!!! debug "Debug Information"

    Image: [`docker.io/bitnami/mariadb:11.3.2`](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/mariadb-galera)

    * Ports: 3306/tcp
    * JDBC: `jdbc://mariadb:<hostname>:3306`

    To directly access in Kubernetes (for e.g. debugging), forward the svc port to your local machine:

    ```shell
    kubectl [-n namespace] port-forward svc/metadata-db 3306:3306
    ```

## Overview

The metadata database is the single, central source of truth within DBRepo and holds all metadata information for
interaction between the services and displaying information in the UI.

On the first start, the schema is generated by the file `/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/setup-schema.sql` within the
container. You can add custom files that should be executed on the first start by placing them into the
`/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/` folder as well. For example:

```yaml
services:
  dbrepo-metadata-db:
    ...
    volumes:
      - /path/to/setup-schema.sql:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/1_setup-schema.sql
      - /path/to/setup-data.sql:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/2_setup-data.sql
    ...
```

## Configuration

By default, the Metadata Database is configured as a cluster of three nodes where each node has a maximum of 2048 MiB
RAM available. As recommended by
[MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb-memory-allocation/#allocating-ram-for-mariadb-the-short-answer), we set
`innodb_buffer_pool_size=1430M` (70% of the available RAM). If you have more RAM available, you should set the variable
accordingly to improve the performance.

## Image

:octicons-tag-16:{ title="Minimum version" } 1.4.4

We recommend to use the MariaDB image directly instead of our own maintained image which just copied
the `setup-schema.sql` into the container. This can be done more transparently through volume mounts.

!!! warning "Alphabetic Filename Sorting"

    Beware that the init script provided by Bitnami executes files in alphabetic order! For example: the file 
    `setup-schema.sql` is executed **after** the file `setup-data.sql`! Thefore a sorting prefix 1-9 is recommended!


## Limitations

(none)

!!! question "Do you miss functionality? Do these limitations affect you?"

    We strongly encourage you to help us implement it as we are welcoming contributors to open-source software and get
    in [contact](../contact) with us, we happily answer requests for collaboration with attached CV and your programming 
    experience!